I want to show you how to whisk up an
egg white and after that how to make a
meringue with it so I'm taking a whole
egg I'm going to crack it into a bowl
just on the side like this and then you
want to separate it in half and then to
get the white out you just want to
simply kind of pour the yolk and white
through the half's like this
letting the white all drip down into the
bowl pop that into a bowl
you don't want to use that you can use
that for lemon curd if you like it also
would enrich an omelet or something like
that now I'm going to whisk up my egg
white now I've made sure of my bowl and
my beaters are very clean because if
you've got any grease in there then the
egg whites weren't whisk up properly
they started off on a low speed
and then I'm gradually going to make a
little bit faster so you can see the egg
whites roughing up now
there we go that's what we call a soft
peak stage you could use that if you
wanted to make like a pancake batter a
bit lighter just stir some of that
through very gently
you're getting a bit more and then
you're getting up to the kind of medium
peak stage where it's just flopping over
a little bit
[Music]
and you'll see that stiff peaks have
formed now if I lift up the beaters so
if we tip it over it shouldn't fall out
so now that's done what I'm going to do
is start adding some of my sugar now
I've got 50 grams of sugar for every one
medium egg white and I'm just going to
add a little bit at a time just a
tablespoon or so to start off with whisk
that through then add a little bit more
and
tip the rested
and then you just want to whisk it up a
little bit it's really amalgamated sugar
there we go it's lovely glossy and
smooth and you'll see it starting to
resemble I think of it is something like
shaving foam now I've got a baking tray
here and I've got some silicone paper on
it
I wouldn't use grease proof because if
you've ever made a meringue before you
know they do have a tendency to stick so
I do one of these or you can get one of
those heavy-duty non-stick baking sheets
they work really well as well so I'm
just damming some of the mixture
underneath the paper and what that's
going to do is to stop that sliding
around and then I'm going to spoon out
some of the meringue mixture just using
a spoon like this just pop it up like so
pilot in making little swirl if you like
there we go
pop that decide what you want to do is
pop that in a fairly low oven so about
110 degrees I've had some cooking here
pull these out these have been cooking
for about an hour or so if you've got a
bigger meringue you probably want to
leave it for at an hour and a half or so
take these out and then all you need to
do they're lovely and crispy on top and
if you pull one off the sheet there we
go that hasn't stuck at all it's just
ever so hollow if you tap it on the
bottom so pile it up like that serve it
with some cream and summer fruits or you
should crush some up for an Eton Mess
and there you have it how to whisk up an
egg whites and make a beautiful meringue
afterwards